== clucker

'''clucker''' provides access to most of Twitter's public API  access endpoints, including both REST and streaming endpoints. 

[[toc:]]

== Description

This extension provides access to most of Twitter's RESTful and streaming API endpoints. Notable exceptions include most POST endpoints used, for example, for creating tweets through the API. This means that in its current form, '''clucker''' is not suitable for projects that require posting tasks (e.g., building a Twitter client, bot, etc.).

== Source Code

[[https://github.com/n3mo/clucker]]

== Requirements
* [[/egg/oauth|oauth egg]]
* [[/egg/uri-common|uri-common egg]]
* [[/egg/rest-bind|rest-bind egg]]

== Usage

For Chicken 5+ clucker can be used with {{(import clucker)}}. For Chicken 4 clucker can be used with {{(use clucker)}}.

== API

=== Parameters

Note that the following two parameters work together to control streaming API endpoints. That is, connections to streaming API endpoints are kept open until '''max-tweets''' or '''global-max-seconds''' are reached (whichever occurs first). At least one of these two parameters should be set to a reasonable value to allow streaming endpoints connections to close gracefully.

<parameter>max-tweets</parameter>

Determines the maximum number of tweets to be returned by Twitter's ''streaming'' endpoints. Streaming endpoints are kept open (barring any network issues) until roughly '''max-tweets''' are returned. This is called "max-tweets" because Twitter offers no guarantees about the number of tweets you will receive (and '''clucker''' does not count incoming tweets---it simply pipes results to the current port). For example, deleted tweets still count toward your request even though the JSON response for the tweet will be essentially empty. Thus if '''max-tweets''' is set to 100, you should expect up to 100 tweets (and likely exactly 100), but should anticipate getting <100. The default is set to 999999999999999999 to be large enough to effectively leave the endpoint open indefinitely.

<parameter>global-max-seconds</parameter>

Determines the timeout for streaming endpoints. Any call to a streaming endpoint will remain open for '''global-max-seconds''' (or until '''max-tweets''' have been returned, whichever occurs first). The default is set to 999999999999999999 to be large enough to effectively leave the endpoint open indefinitely.

=== Authentication Procedures

<procedure>(twitter-service #!key access-token access-token-secret)</procedure>

Calls to Twitter's APIs must be signed with oauth. This procedure accepts the access-token and access-token-secret provided by Twitter (when you create a developer account) and returns a structure for use as a "service" when calling [[http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/5/oauth#with-oauth|with-oauth]].

<procedure>(twitter-token-credential #!key access-token access-token-secret)</procedure>

Calls to Twitter's APIs must be signed with oauth. This procedure accepts the access-token and access-token-secret provided by Twitter (when you create a developer account) and returns a structure for use as a "token-credential" when calling [[http://wiki.call-cc.org/eggref/5/oauth#with-oauth|with-oauth]].

=== Streaming API Endpoint Procedures

<procedure>(statuses-filter #!key delimited stall_warnings follow track locations language)</procedure>

Searchable streaming API---tweets are returned in real time according to the provided keyword filters. This method runs forever, unless the global parameters '''max-tweets''' or '''global-max-seconds''' are set to something to less than the defaults. Tweets are returned as line-oriented JSON to the current-output-port (one tweet = one line = one JSON object). Keyword parameters are described on [[https://developer.twitter.com/en|Twitter's developer documentation]].

<procedure>(statuses-sample #!key delimited stall_warnings)</procedure>

Random access streaming endpoint. This returns a random sample of all tweets occuring in real time (up to 1% of Twitter's total volume). This method runs forever, unless the global parameters max-tweets or global-max-seconds are set to something. Tweets are returned as line-oriented JSON to the current-output-port. Keyword parameters are described on [[https://developer.twitter.com/en|Twitter's developer documentation]].

=== REST API Endpoint Procedures

For the following procedures, tweets are returned to the current-output-port as JSON strings ''in the format provided by Twitter's API.'' In other words, results are simply passed as-is to the current-output-port (and can be parsed with a tool such as [[/egg/medea|medea]]). Which keyword parameters are optional versus required, as well as what values can be passed are subject to frequent revision by Twitter. As such, users should consult [[https://developer.twitter.com/en|Twitter's developer documentation]] for details about how to use each procedure's keywords.

<procedure>(statuses-mentions-timeline #!key count since_id max_id trim_user contributor_details include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-user-timeline #!key user_id screen_name since_id count max_id trim_user exclude_replies contributor_details include_rts)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-home-timeline #!key count since_id max_id trim_user exclude_replies contributor_details include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-retweets-of-me #!key count since_id max_id trim_user include_entities include_user_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-retweets-:id #!key id count trim_user)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-show-:id #!key id trim_user include_my_retweet include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-retweeters-ids #!key id cursor stringify_ids)</procedure>

<procedure>(statuses-lookup #!key id include_entities trim_user map tweet_mode)</procedure>

<procedure>(direct-messages-sent #!key since_id max_id count page include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(direct-messages-show #!key id)</procedure>

<procedure>(search-tweets #!key q geocode lang locale result_type count until since_id max_id include_entities callback)</procedure>

<procedure>(direct-messages #!key since_id max_id count include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(friendships-no-retweets-ids #!key stringify_ids)</procedure>

<procedure>(friends-ids #!key user_id screen_name cursor stringify_ids count)</procedure>

<procedure>(followers-ids #!key user_id screen_name cursor stringify_ids count)</procedure>

<procedure>(friendships-incoming #!key cursor stringify_ids)</procedure>

<procedure>(friendships-outgoing #!key cursor stringify_ids)</procedure>

<procedure>(friendships-show #!key source_id source_screen_name target_id target_screen_name)</procedure>

<procedure>(friends-list #!key user_id screen_name cursor count skip_status include_user_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(followers-list #!key user_id screen_name cursor count skip_status include_user_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(friendships-lookup #!key screen_name user_id)</procedure>

<procedure>(account-settings)</procedure>

<procedure>(account-verify-credentials #!key include_entities skip_status include_email)</procedure>

<procedure>(blocks-list #!key include_entities skip_status cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(blocks-ids #!key stringify_ids cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-lookup #!key screen_name user_id include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-show #!key user_id screen_name include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-search #!key q page count include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-profile-banner #!key user_id screen_name)</procedure>

<procedure>(mutes-users-ids #!key cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(mutes-users-list #!key cursor include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-suggestions-:slug #!key slug lang)</procedure>

<procedure>(users-suggestions-:slug-members #!key slug)</procedure>

<procedure>(favorites-list #!key user_id screen_name count since_id max_id include_entities)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-list #!key user_id screen_name reverse)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-statuses #!key list_id slug owner_screen_name owner_id since_id max_id count include_entities include_rts)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-memberships #!key user_id screen_name count cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-subscribers #!key list_id slug owner_screen_name owner_id count cursor include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-subscribers-show #!key owner_screen_name owner_id list_id slug user_id screen_name include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-members-show #!key list_id slug user_id screen_name owner_screen_name owner_id include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-members #!key list_id slug owner_screen_name owner_id count cursor include_entities skip_status)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-show #!key list_id slug owner_screen_name owner_id)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-subscriptions #!key user_id screen_name count cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(lists-ownerships #!key user_id screen_name count cursor)</procedure>

<procedure>(saved-searches-list)</procedure>

<procedure>(saved-searches-show-:id #!key id)</procedure>

<procedure>(geo-id-:place-id #!key place_id)</procedure>

<procedure>(geo-reverse-geocode #!key lat long accuracy granularity max_results callback)</procedure>

<procedure>(geo-search #!key lat long query ip granularity accuracy max_results contained_within attribute:street_address)</procedure>

<procedure>(trends-place #!key id exclude)</procedure>

<procedure>(trends-available)</procedure>

<procedure>(application-rate-limit-status #!key resources)</procedure>

<procedure>(help-configuration)</procedure>

<procedure>(help-languages)</procedure>

<procedure>(help-privacy)</procedure>

<procedure>(help-tos)</procedure>

<procedure>(trends-closest #!key lat long)</procedure>

== Examples

Note that careful use of this egg requires that you follow Twitter's API rate limits. These rate limits must be managed by the calling code (e.g., by consulting the '''application-rate-limit-status''' procedure to determine the number of remaining calls to the API endpoint(s), and then restricting the access rate accordingly). See [[https://developer.twitter.com/en|Twitter's developer documentation]] for up-to-date details on rate limits for each endpoint.

The following minimal example queries the '''friends-list''' REST API endpoint, returning the first 10 friends of the @NASA Twitter account. Note that you will need to first request a Twitter developer account, set up a Twitter application, and generate the appropriate consumer-key, consumer-secret, access-token, and access-token-secret (this is all done on Twitter's developer website). Those secret values must replace the dummy-coded secrets in the example code before running.

<enscript highlight=scheme>
(import clucker oauth-client)
;;; Set up oauth credentials. You will need to insert your own
;;; consumer-key, consumer-secret, access-token, and
;;; access-token-secret (these can be found in your Twitter developer
;;; account after creating a Twitter application)
(let* ((twitter-app
	(twitter-service
	 #:consumer-key "yourconsumerkeyhere"
	 #:consumer-secret "yourconsumersecrethere"))
       (user-tokens
	(twitter-token-credential
	 #:access-token "youraccesstokenhere"
	 #:access-token-secret "youraccesstokensecrethere")))
  ;; This intercepts all calls to Twitter and signs them with
  ;; the user's oauth credentials
  (with-oauth
   twitter-app user-tokens
   (lambda ()
     ;; Call the actual endpoint you want here
     (friends-list #:screen_name "NASA"
		   #:count 10))))
</enscript>

== About This Egg

=== Author

[[https://www.nicholasvanhorn.com/|Nick Van Horn]] 

=== Version History

; 0.11 : Support for Chicken 5
; 0.10 : Bugfix in streaming tweet counts
; 0.9 : Initial release.

=== License

 Copyright (c) 2015-2020, Nicholas M. Van Horn
 All rights reserved.
  
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 3. The name of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote products
    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
  
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
